---
title: 日语面接
date: 2024-02-07 16:14
article: false
tags: 
---

how to prepare for the question? Use STAR  
strategy  
Situation - Task - Action - Results To struct your answers

### Tell me about yourself.

### Why are you interested in working for our company?
"Thank you for giving me the opportunity to discuss my background with you today. I'm currently completing my Master's in Mathematics at the National University of Singapore, where I've been focusing on advanced quantitative analysis and problem-solving skills. Prior to this, I earned my Bachelor's degree in Statistics from XXX, which laid the foundation for my interest in data analysis and software development.

My passion for technology and problem-solving led me to a role as a Fullstack Developer Intern at Yonyou Singapore. Here, I developed a robotic process automation system using Python's Selenium framework to integrate e-commerce platforms with ERP systems, significantly streamlining customer order processing. Additionally, I worked on an independent exhibition sign-in system and utilized OCR and ChatGPT technologies for digitizing invoices and logistic quotations%%, which played a crucial part in assisting the pre-sales team.%%

I'm proficient in multiple programming languages, including Rust, JavaScript, Python, and Java, and I'm familiar with frameworks and tools like Django, Express, also git, AWS. 

今日はこの機会をくれてありがとうございます。私はシンガポール国立大学で数学の修士課程を勉強しています。それは 2022 年 8 月から始まり、2024 年 12 月に終わります。その前に、2019 年 9 月から 2022 年 5 月まで、中国の重慶大学で統計学の学士を取りました。

私はヨウヨウシンガポールでフルスタック開発者インターンとして働いたことがあります。そこで、Python のセレニウムを使って、e コマースプラットフォームと ERP システムを統合する自動化システムを開発しました。これにより、顧客の注文処理が効率化されました。また、独立したサインインシステムを開発したり、OCR と ChatGPT 技術を使って、請求書や物流の見積もりをデジタル化しました

プログラミング言語では、Rust、TypeScript、Python、C、HTML/CSS/JavaScript、Java、SQL が使えます。フレームワークでは、FastAPI、Express、React、NextJs、Django を使った経験があります。言語スキルとしては、中国語と英語、そして日本語能力試験 N2 レベルの日本語が話せます。

### What are your strengths and weaknesses?
strength: passion to work.One of my greatest strengths is my passion for work. This enthusiasm drives me to continuously explore creative ideas and solutions. For instance, during my time at Yonyou Singapore,

As for weaknesses, I've noticed that my enthusiasm sometimes leads me to take on too many projects at once. In my eagerness to contribute and implement new ideas, I've found myself stretched thin on occasions. Recognizing this, I've been working on improving my time management and prioritization skills. I've started to use project management tools and techniques to better organize my workload and set realistic deadlines. This approach has helped me balance my passion for work with the need to maintain high-quality output and well-being.

### Can you describe a challenging project you worked on and how you overcame the challenges?

### How do you manage tight deadlines or multiple projects?

### Why do you want to work in Japan?

### How do you keep your technical skills current?

### describe a time when you had to work closely with others on a team. How did you handle disagreements or conflicts?
In a project, we needed to send bulk emails through a corporate email account but faced permission issues. The straightforward approach of using SMTP for email sending was not feasible due to security restrictions. To resolve this, we initially attempted to directly communicate with the client, hoping they would grant us the necessary permissions. Unfortunately, the client's technical staff rejected our request, leading to a deadlock in the project.

Facing this challenge, we didn't give up but instead sought assistance from our superiors. Upon understanding the situation, our leadership decided to directly communicate with the client's top management. This strategy ultimately paid off, as the client's executives understood our needs and agreed to our request.

This experience taught me the importance of persistence and effective communication when facing difficulties. It also highlighted the significance of timely seeking support and utilizing organizational resources as key to solving problems.

### Do you have any questions for us?
Sales driven/ Tech driven  
Could you share with me what code management tools are currently utilized within your development team? I'm keen to understand how your team collaborates on coding projects and maintains code quality."  
**What are the next steps in the interview process?**  
In my previous role, I occasionally had to visit client sites. Could you tell me if similar situations arise in this position at your company? If so, how often do such visits typically occur?"

"I am deeply interested in working in Japan for several reasons that align with both my personal and professional growth objectives. Firstly, I am genuinely fascinated by Japan's rich culture and history, which I believe would offer a unique and enriching living experience. The opportunity to immerse myself in the language and traditions of Japan is something I look forward to.